---
layout: post
title: A World on the Margins - A Review, and Looking Forward
image: /assets/img/copy-of-1p-a-world-on-the-margins-a-review-and-looking-forward_1.png
topic: deep-dives
---

### A World on the Margins: A Review, and Looking Forward

The inside jokes shared by our community transcend borders and boundaries. When
you’re part of the WSC community, you’ll meet people you can count on from all
over the world. In this deep dive, OnePwaa scholars from across the globe will
be reflecting on the 2019 season. We also made theories on what could happen
next year (none of us have 20/20 vision, but we gave it our best shot). ​​

1. A Reflection on the Curriculum

A World in the Margins was a great curriculum to study; and I hope you will
agree with me. This year, we learned about the many types of margins that
permeate our everyday lives: from cutting-edge technology in science to the
oft-forgotten voices of history. Each subject connects with the theme in its own
unique way, and connects well with one another. For example, learning about
screenwriting software in science allows us to examine how authors in literature
might have benefited from those programs. I’m sure you’ve encountered this
multidisciplinary approach in the curriculum from the rounds you’ve attended,
too.

My personal favorite subject was science. Ever since I joined this amazing
community three years ago, science (& technology, in 2017) has always been the
most fascinating: the questions call upon us as scholars to dive really deep
down into the specifics of the scientific developments being studied, but they
don’t make you feel like you are writing an esoteric dissertation. Terms and
concepts are laid out with specificity and in intuitive categories. Meanwhile,
the questions for discussion really tackle thought-provoking issues.

This year, I see that the concentration in science has included more of the
latter: the majority of the material was dedicated to team discussion questions:
like the legitimacy of Scantron-compatible tests and the reflection of
inequality in people having air-conditioners (or not). Of course, the
prerequisite is to know how these things work. What’s amazing is that these
concepts and terms become part of a larger conversation-- one that concerns
societal and ethical change. Questions like these underline the importance of
discourse among team members (and among different teams, too!), which will lead
to a deep understanding of the subject.

I also had a good time researching on the other topics. I was intrigued by the
works and concepts which have ties to Vietnamese history and culture, such as
bụi đời and White Boy Time Machine: Override by Hieu Minh Nguyen. It is
interesting to see the juxtaposition of my existing views (of how culture and
history have manifested) and that which has been documented in my research.

2. A Personal Experience

Scholar’s Cup has become a platform for thousands of scholars to become better
versions of themselves. (I know that I sound like every other person right now,
but, really) WSC has simultaneously given me the opportunity to grow as an
individual and meet new people--people like me who I’ll never forget, even when
they live on the opposite side of the planet. This year’s round at Beijing was
my 4th global round, and possibly my last one. Something about this trip felt
different. My school is usually known for its large delegation, but our numbers
dwindled significantly because everyone else wanted to go to Aussie. As they
say: it be like that sometimes.

As I was travelling with the unusually small group of seniors from my school, I
felt an uncanny sense of contentment. I am used to the waves of longing and
nostalgia. They come and go; the waves crash in when your coach tells you to
leave the convention center, fades, then returns when you’re forced to get onto
your flight back home. This year, I felt as if I had made the most of my WSC
journey. In the past, I’d always have regrets: not studying enough, not sleeping
enough, not talking to that cute guy I saw at the ball--the (slightly
embarrassing) list goes on. After spending so much of my life with the WSC
community, I couldn’t help but feel so at home in Beijing; I wouldn’t mind if it
became my last global round. I had embraced every moment, and not a single
instance was tainted with regret.

**What About Next Season?**

Theme: A World Renewed

Possible Direction: Celebrating the achievements of the past decade while
talking about the challenges brought forward that are still unresolved.

Analysis: “Renewed” implies rebirth. The most probable reason why this became
the theme for the 2020 season is due to the dawn of a new decade. This can be
treated as a soft reboot of the past decade, which is a new beginning for us to
face the problems that have been lingering since the past decade and to deal
with any new issues that may come up. The issues carried forward that I believe
will be included are issues of climate change, political strife, division within
society and inequality. Potential issues we will be dealing with are cyber
security, job security (due to AI and automation) and potential changes in the
political climate.

Art and Music: Might include Stravinsky’s Firebird Suite, since the firebird
symbolizes the cycle of rebirth and hence, renewal. Furthermore, another idea
would be remixes of the same song. This would tie into the syllabus of songs
being ‘renewed’ and made into different (could be better… or worse) versions.
With this in mind, I personally think that there would be sub-sections of
“famous songs that have been sued with copyright infringement”-- for example, in
2007, 50 Cent was sued over the line “Go shawty. It’s your birthday.” in the
song ‘In Da Club’. The plaintiff, a music publisher, claimed that the lyrics
were copied from its song ‘It’s Your Birthday,’ which was written by Luther
Cambell. However, the court ruled for 50 Cent, holding that those lyrics were
not original because the phrase was a common chant in hip-hop events and Cambell
admitted he did not create the phrase.

Several paths for science: the first being the science of climates and green
technology, since climate change has been, and will be a serious issue in the
coming decade (also, 2019 was the year where we had Greta Thunberg and the
climate protests). Hence, topics could include global warming, CFCs and their
history, how ozone depletion occurs (radicals and such) and other green
technologies, like how we replaced CFCs (and how the ozone might restore
itself), electric cars, solar panels, etc. Another idea for science comes in the
form of cyber security and technology. Topics may discuss automation, computers
and how they work. Cyber warfare might be included to introduce the concept of
‘renewed’ warfare-- not one of weapons and escalating armament, but that of
cyber networks. Topics could even include how governments prepare for cyber
warfare.

History: So far, I can only speculate that History will involve collapsed
nations/societies and how they were rebuilt from scratch/ruin by their
governments/international cooperation. Cases that first come into mind are
Post-WWII (includes Dresden, Tokyo, London and the capitalist/communist bloc’s
plans-- Marshall Plan and COMECON). Natural disasters could also be explored:
cases like the 2010 Haitian earthquake and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and
tsunami, Chernobyl, and the efforts to rebuild these areas or control their
damage. Other topics could revolve around protests like the Arab Spring, due to
the increase in the number of active protests for democracy in many nations.

Social Studies: I think renewed might refer to cultural assimilation-- where
immigrants are ‘renewed’ into new unique identities in whatever state they are
in. Renewed might even refer to the shift in how society is organized, which
goes into the heart of many key debates in the news these days: the extent of
free speech, the roles of democracy and capitalism in society, and whether there
are other ways of organising society instead of capitalism, socialism and every
other ideology in between the spectrum.

The possibilities are endless. The extent to which next year’s season will renew
our personal worlds is difficult to predict; some things are always subject to
change. However, there are also things that never change. For one: alpacas,
crisp memes, and stressful hours dedicated to the dreaded challenge await us
all. We at OnePwaa are ready to do it all with you-- again and again and again
and again.

<br>
